# coding-sample

Before reviewing this work in detail, please take a moment to read this text file first!

This folder contains four python scripts, one CSV file, one PDF file and three subfolders.
You ONLY need to run main.py to replicate the whole procedure, generate the clean data and produce all the figures.
Below is the description of each file.

1. Raw Data
This is the subfolder that contains all the raw data and variable dictionary downloaded from U.S. Department of Education website (https://nces.ed.gov/ipeds/).
Data "Directory Information" and "Student Financial Aid and Net Price" from academic year 2010-11 and 2011-12 are provided in this repository.
If you wish to extend the time range of your analysis, simply download the data for additional academic years from the website 
and place the corresponding folders into this subfolder.

2. Figure
This subfolder is the output directory where all generated figures will be saved.
Simply run main.py to produce and export all the figures into this folder.

3. cb_2018_us_state_20m
This subfolder contains the U.S. shapefile used for visualizing data on maps with state boundaries.
The shapefile source is from the Census Bureau: https://www2.census.gov/geo/tiger/GENZ2018/shp/cb_2018_us_state_20m.zip.

4. DataProcessor.py
This python file contains the DataProcessor class that loads, cleans, and exports panel data 
by merging yearly raw datasets, filtering by year range, states, and institution type (whether offering bachelor's degree), and saving the cleaned data as a CSV file.
It is flexible to adjust the year range, states, balanced panel requirement, and other criteria in main.py.
There is no need to run this file.

5. DataAnalyzer.py
This python file contains the class module for analyzing the cleaned panel data. 
It performs year-specific analysis including aggregation of federal grants per student by state, calculation of national and regional summary statistics, 
and simulation of per-student federal grants using a quadratic formula. (The regional classification criteria is from https://www2.census.gov/geo/pdfs/maps-data/maps/reference/us_regdiv.pdf)
By providing the data, target year, and simulation coefficients in main.py, it is fleible to generate specific data aggregation and the summary statistics.
There is no need to run this file.

6. MapMaker.py
This Python file contains the class module for visualizing data using the U.S. shapefile to create heatmaps and exporting the resulting figures. 
It supports generating heatmaps for any data column from any given DataFrame based on the specified coefficients. 
You can also customize the figure names by adjusting the coefficients in main.py.
There is no need to run this file.

7. main.py
This is the main script that processes the raw data to produce the cleaned dataset and all figures featured in Memo.pdf, 
utilizing the three Python class files described above. 
You can adjust the coefficients within this script to generate different results. 
Please be sure to read the note at the top before running it.

8. clean_data.csv
This is the cleaned dataset generated by main.py.

9.Memo.pdf
This is the memo for questions of this task.
